 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Mastercard is a technology company in the global payments industry. We connect consumers, financial institutions, merchants, governments, digital partners, businesses and other organizations worldwide by enabling electronic payments and making those payment transactions safe, simple, smart and accessible. We make payments easier and more efficient by providing a wide range of payment solutions and services using our family of well-known and trusted brands, including Mastercard&#174;, Maestro&#174; and Cirrus&#174;. We operate a multi-rail payments network that provides choice and flexibility for consumers, merchants and our customers. Through our unique and proprietary core global payments network, we switch (authorize, clear and settle) payment transactions. We have additional payments capabilities that include automated clearing house (&#8220;ACH&#8221;) transactions (both batch and real-time account-based payments). Using these capabilities, we offer payment products and services and capture new payment flows. Our value-added services include, among others, cyber and intelligence solutions designed to allow all parties to transact securely, easily and with confidence, as well as other services that provide proprietary insights, drawing on our principled and responsible use of secure consumer and merchant data . Our investments in new networks, such as open banking solutions and digital identity capabilities, support and strengthen our payments and services solutions. Each of our capabilities support and build upon each other and are fundamentally interdependent. For our core global payments network, our franchise model sets the standards and ground-rules that balance value and risk across all stakeholders and allows for interoperability among them. We employ a multi-layered approach to help protect the global payments ecosystem in which we operate. 

For a full discussion of our business, please see page 10. 

Our Performance 

The following are our key financial and operational highlights for 2023, including growth rates over the prior year: 

##TABLE_START GAAP Net revenue Net income Diluted EPS $25.1B $11.2B $11.83 up 13% up 13% up 16% Non-GAAP 1 (currency-neutral) 

Adjusted net revenue Adjusted net income Adjusted diluted EPS $25.1B $11.6B $12.26 up 13% up 12% up 15% $11.2B 

$9.0B Repurchased shares $12.0B in capital returned to stockholders 

$2.2B Dividends paid cash flows from operations 

Gross dollar volume 

(growth on a local currency basis) 

Cross-border volume growth (on a local currency basis) 

Switched transactions $9.0T up 24% 143.2B up 12% up 14% ##TABLE_END

1 Non-GAAP results (including growth rates) exclude the impact of gains and losses on equity investments, Special Items and/or foreign currency. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Results Overview&#8221; in Part II, Item 7 for the reconciliation to the most direct comparable GAAP financial measures. 

6 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The following chart provides gross dollar volume (&#8220;GDV&#8221;) and number of cards featuring our brands in 2023 for select programs and solutions: 

##TABLE_START GDV Cards Year Ended December 31, 2023 As of December 31, 2023 

Mastercard-branded Programs 1, 2 

(in billions) Growth (Local) % of Total GDV (in millions) % Increase from December 31, 2022 Consumer Credit $ 3,445 12 % 38 % 1,024 4 % Consumer Debit and Prepaid 4,437 12 % 49 % 1,780 12 % Commercial Credit and Debit 1,148 13 % 13 % 140 15 % ##TABLE_END

1 Excludes Maestro and Cirrus cards and volume generated by those cards. 

2 Prepaid includes both consumer and commercial prepaid. 

For a full discussion of our results of operations, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Item II, Part 7. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy centers on growing our core payments network, diversifying our customers and geographies and building new capabilities through a combination of organic and inorganic strategic initiatives. We are executing on this strategy through a focus on three key priorities: 

&#8226; expand in payments for consumers, businesses and governments 

&#8226; extend our services to enhance transactions and drive customer value 

&#8226; embrace new network opportunities to enable open banking, digital identity and other adjacent network capabilities 

Each of our priorities supports and builds upon each other and are fundamentally interdependent. 

##TABLE_START Our strategy Our key priorities Powering our success 

Grow 

our core 

People Brand 

Diversify 

into new customers 

and geographies 

Data Technology 

Build 

new areas 

for the future 

Franchise Doing well by doing good ##TABLE_END

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 7 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Key Strategic Priorities 

Expand in payments. We focus on expanding upon our core payments network to enable payment flows for consumers, businesses, governments and others, which provides them with choice and flexibility to transact across multiple payment rails (including cards, real-time payments, account-based transactions, crypto and others), while ensuring that all payments are safe, secure and seamless. We do so by: 

&#8226; Driving growth in consumer payments with a focus on accelerating digitization, growing acceptance and pursuing an expanded set of use cases, including through partnerships 

&#8226; Capturing new payment flows by expanding our multi-rail capabilities and applications to penetrate key flows such as commercial point-of-sale transactions, business-to-business (&#8220;B2B&#8221;) accounts payable flows, disbursements and remittances and consumer bill payments 

&#8226; Leaning into new payment innovations including acceptance growth accelerators such as Tap on Phone, cloud commerce and contactless, as well as developing solutions that support digital currencies and blockchain applications 

Extend our services. Our services drive value for our customers and the broader payments ecosystem. These services include cyber and intelligence solutions, insights and analytics, consulting, marketing, loyalty, processing and payment gateway solutions for e-commerce merchants. As we drive value, our services generate revenue while helping to accelerate our overall financial performance by supporting revenue growth in payments and new network opportunities. We extend our services by: 

&#8226; Enhancing the value of payments by making payments safe, secure, intelligent and seamless 

&#8226; Expanding services to new segments and use cases to address the needs of a larger set of customers, including financial institutions, merchants, governments, digital players and others, while expanding our geographic reach 

&#8226; Supporting and strengthening new network capabilities, including expanding services associated with digital identities and deploying our expertise in open banking and open data 

Embrace new network opportunities. We are building and managing new adjacent network capabilities to power commerce and payments, creating new opportunities to develop and embed services. We do so by: 

&#8226; Applying our open banking solutions to help institutions and individuals exchange consumer-permissioned data securely and easily by enabling the reliable access, transmission and management of consumer data (including for opening new accounts, securing loans, increasing credit scores and enabling consumer choice in money movement and personal finance management) 

&#8226; Enabling digital identity solutions to instill trust in the digital world and help ensure that payments across consumers, businesses, devices and virtual entities are efficient, safe and secure 

Each of our priorities supports and builds upon each other and are fundamentally interdependent: 

&#8226; Payments provide data and distribution to drive scale and differentiation in services and enable the development and adoption of new network capabilities 

&#8226; Services improve the security, efficiency and intelligence of payments, improve portfolio performance, differentiate our offerings, strengthen our customer relationships and support our open banking and digital identity networks 

&#8226; New network opportunities strengthen our digital payments value proposition, including improved authentication with digital identity, and new opportunities to develop and embed services in our expanding product offerings 

Powering Our Success 

These priorities are supported by six key drivers: 

People. Our success is driven by the skills, experience, integrity and mindset of our people. We attract, develop and retain top talent from diverse backgrounds and industries, in alignment with our strategic priorities. Our winning culture is guided by the Mastercard Way, which outlines the behaviors we expect from employees to deliver for our customers and one another. We foster a working environment grounded in decency, respect, equity and inclusion, where people have opportunities to perform purpose-driven work that impacts communities, customers and co-workers on a global scale. 

Brand. Our brands and brand identities serve as a differentiator for our business, representing our values and enabling us to accelerate growth in new areas. 

8 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Data. We create a range of products and services for our customers using our data assets, infrastructure, platforms and expertise while following our data and tech responsibility principles in how we design, implement and deliver those solutions. Our Privacy by Design, Data by Design and Artificial Intelligence (&#8220;AI&#8221;) Governance processes are designed to ensure we embed multiple layers of privacy, data protection and information security controls in all of our products and services, keeping a clear focus on protecting customers&#8217; and individuals&#8217; data and privacy. 

Technology. Our technology provides resiliency, scalability and flexibility in how we serve customers. It enables broader reach to scale digital payment services to multiple channels. Our technology standards, services and governance model help us to serve as the connection that allows financial institutions, financial technology companies (fintechs) and others to interoperate and enable consumers, businesses, governments and merchants to engage through digital channels. 

Franchise. We manage an ecosystem of stakeholders who participate in our global payments network. Our franchise model creates and sustains a comprehensive series of value exchanges across our ecosystem. We provide a balanced ecosystem where all participants benefit from the availability, innovation and safety and security of our network. Our franchise model enables the scale of our network and provides a single governance structure for its operation. This structure has the potential to be extended to new opportunities. 

Doing Well by Doing Good. Sustainable impact is fundamental to our business strategy. We leverage our employees, technology, resources, partnerships and expertise to address social, economic and environmental challenges, while at the same time creating markets for future growth and driving long-term value for stockholders. Our environmental, social and governance (&#8220;ESG&#8221;) priorities are expressed through three pillars - People, Prosperity, Planet - and all of the work we do is grounded in strong governance principles. For more information, please reference our most recently published Environmental, Social and Governance Report and Proxy Statement (each located on our website). 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 9 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Business 

Our Multi-Rail Network and Payments Capabilities 

We enable a wide variety of payments capabilities (including products and value-added services and solutions) over our multi-rail network among account holders, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, governments and others, offering our customers one partner for their payment needs. 

Payment Network 

Our core payment network links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the switching of transactions, permitting account holders to use our products at over 100 million acceptance locations worldwide. This network facilitates an efficient, safe and secure means for making and receiving payments, a convenient, quick and secure payment method for consumers to access their funds and a channel for businesses to receive insight through information that is derived from our network. We enable transactions for our customers through our core payment network in more than 150 currencies and in more than 210 countries and territories. 

Payment Network Transactions. Our core payment network supports what is often referred to as a &#8220;four-party&#8221; payments network and includes the following participants: account holder (a person or entity who holds a card or uses another device enabled for payment), issuer (the account holder&#8217;s financial institution), merchant and acquirer (the merchant&#8217;s financial institution). 

We do not issue cards, extend credit, determine or receive revenue from interest rates or other fees charged to account holders by issuers, or establish the rates charged by acquirers in connection with merchants&#8217; acceptance of our products. In most cases, account holder relationships belong to, and are managed by, our customers. 

The following graphic depicts a typical transaction on our core payment network and our role in that transaction, which includes payments ecosystem security, value-added services and the enablement of digital payments: 

In a typical transaction, an account holder purchases goods or services from a merchant using one of our payment products. After the transaction is authorized by the issuer, the issuer pays the acquirer an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below) and other applicable fees, and then posts the transaction to the account holder&#8217;s account. The acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount (referred to as the &#8220;merchant discount&#8221; rate), to the merchant. 

&#8226; Interchange Fees. Interchange fees reflect the value merchants receive from accepting our products and play a key role in balancing the costs and benefits that consumers and merchants derive. Generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and paid to issuers to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred. These costs are incurred by issuers in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants, whose participation in the network enables increased sales to their existing and new customers, efficiencies in the delivery of existing and new products, guaranteed payments and improved customer experience. We (or, alternatively, financial institutions) establish &#8220;default interchange fees&#8221; that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer. We administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process. 

10 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

&#8226; Additional Four-Party System Fees. The merchant discount rate is established by the acquirer to cover its costs of both participating in the four-party system and providing services to merchants. The rate takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer. Additionally, acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount rate. Issuers may also charge account holders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. 

Switched Transactions 

&#8226; Authorization, Clearing and Settlement. Through our core payment network, we enable the routing of a transaction to the issuer for its approval, facilitate the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a successfully conducted transaction, and settle the transaction by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties via settlement banks chosen by us and our customers. 

&#8226; Cross-Border and Domestic. Our core payment network switches transactions throughout the world when the merchant country and country of issuance are different (&#8220;cross-border transactions&#8221;), providing account holders with the ability to use, and merchants to accept, our products and services across country borders. We also provide switched transaction services to customers where the merchant country and the country of issuance are the same (&#8220;domestic transactions&#8221;). We switch over 65% of all transactions for Mastercard and Maestro-branded cards, including nearly all cross-border transactions. 

We guarantee the settlement of many of the transactions from issuers to acquirers to ensure the integrity of our core payment network. We refer to the amount of this guarantee as our settlement exposure. We do not, however, guarantee payments to merchants by their acquirers or the availability of unspent prepaid account holder account balances. 

Payment Network Architecture. Our core payment network features a globally integrated structure that provides scale for our issuers, enabling them to expand into regional and global markets. It is based largely on a distributed (peer-to-peer) architecture that enables the network to adapt to the needs of each transaction. The network accomplishes this by performing intelligent routing and applying multiple value-added services (such as fraud scoring, tokenization services, etc.) to appropriate transactions in real time. This architecture enables us to connect all parties regardless of where or how the transaction is occurring. It has 24-hour a day availability and world-class response time. 

Account-Based Payments Capabilities 

We offer ACH batch and real-time account-based payments capabilities, enabling payments for ACH transactions between bank accounts in real-time. Our real-time account-based payments capabilities provide consumers and businesses the ability to make instant (faster) payments while providing enhanced data and messaging capabilities. We build, implement, enhance and operate real-time clearing and settlement infrastructure, payment platforms and direct debit systems for jurisdictions globally. As of December 31, 2023, we either operated or were implementing real-time payments infrastructure in 13 markets. We also use our real-time account-based payments capabilities to enable consumers, businesses, governments and merchants to send and receive money directly from account to account. 

We discuss below under &#8220;Our Payment Products and Applications&#8221; the ways in which we apply our real-time account-based payments capabilities to capture new payment flows. 

Security and Franchise 

Payments Ecosystem Security. We employ a multi-layered approach to help protect the global payments ecosystem, including a robust program designed to protect our network from cyber and information security threats. Our network and platforms incorporate multiple layers of protection, providing greater resiliency and security protection. Our programs are assessed by third parties and incorporate benchmarking and other data from peer companies and consultants. We engage in many efforts to mitigate information security challenges, including maintaining an information security program, an enterprise resilience program and insurance coverage, as well as regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities. We work with experts across the organization (as well as through other sources such as public-private partnerships) to monitor and respond quickly to a range of cyber and physical threats, including threats and incidents associated with the use of services provided by third-party providers. 

As another feature of our multi-layered approach, we work with issuers, acquirers, merchants, governments and payments industry associations to develop and put in place technical standards (such as EMV standards for chips and smart payment cards) for safe and secure transactions and we provide solutions and products that are designed to help provide safety and security for the global payments ecosystem. Our approach includes supporting small businesses by sharing best practices and providing access to free utilities and services, benefiting both them and the entire payments ecosystem. We discuss specific cyber and intelligence solutions that we offer to our customers below under &#8220;Our Value-Added Services&#8221;. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 11 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Franchise. We manage an ecosystem of stakeholders that participate in our global payments network, setting standards and rules for all participants and aiming to ensure interoperability among them while balancing risk and value across all stakeholders. Our franchise model achieves this by creating and sustaining a comprehensive series of value exchanges across our ecosystem. Through our franchise model, we work to ensure a balanced ecosystem where all participants may benefit from the availability, innovation, safety and security of our network. We achieve this goal through the following key activities: 

&#8226; Participant Onboarding. We determine that each new customer meets the necessary prerequisites to use and contribute to our network by defining clear ecosystem roles and responsibilities for their operations 

&#8226; Operating Standards. We define the technical, operational and financial standards that all network participants are required to uphold 

&#8226; Safety and Security. We establish central principles, including safeguarding consumer protections and integrity, so participants feel confident to transact on the network 

&#8226; Responsible Stewardship. We set performance standards to support ecosystem optimization and growth and use proactive monitoring to both ensure participant adherence to operating standards and protect the integrity of the ecosystem 

&#8226; Issue Resolution. We operate a framework to address disputes between our network participants 

Our Payment Products and Applications 

##TABLE_START We provide a wide variety of products and services that support payment products that customers can offer to consumers and merchants. These offerings facilitate transactions across our multi-rail payments network and platforms among account holders, merchants, financial institutions, digital partners, businesses, governments and other organizations in markets globally. 

Consumer Payment Products 

Consumer Credit. We offer products that enable issuers to provide consumers with credit, allowing them to defer payment. These programs are designed to meet the needs of our customers around the world and address standard, premium and affluent consumer segments. 

How We Benefit Consumers We enable our customers to benefit consumers by: 

&#8226; making electronic payments more convenient, secure and efficient 

&#8226; delivering better, seamless consumer experiences 

&#8226; providing consumers choice, empowering them to make and receive payments in the ways that best meet their daily needs 

&#8226; protecting consumers and all other participants in a transaction, as well as consumer data 

&#8226; providing loyalty rewards and benefits 

##TABLE_END Consumer Debit. We support a range of payment products and solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds in deposit and other accounts. Our debit and deposit access programs can be used to make purchases and to obtain cash from bank branches, at ATMs and, in some cases, at the point of sale. Our branded debit programs consist of Mastercard (including standard, premium and affluent offerings), Maestro (our PIN-based solution that operates globally) and Cirrus (our primary global cash access solution). 

Prepaid. Prepaid accounts are a type of electronic payment that enables consumers to pay from pre-funded accounts whether or not they previously had a bank account or a credit history. These accounts can be tailored to meet specific program, customer or consumer needs, such as paying bills, sending person-to-person payments or withdrawing cash from an ATM. Our focus ranges from digital accounts (such as fintech and gig economy platforms) to business programs such as employee payroll, health savings accounts and solutions for small business owners. Our prepaid programs also offer opportunities in the private and public sectors to drive financial inclusion of previously unbanked individuals through social security payments, unemployment benefits and salary cards. 

12 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

New Payment Flows 

We offer platforms, products and applications that apply our multi-rail payment capabilities to capture new payment flows, enabling us to serve the needs of a significant addressable market. 

Commercial Point of Sale. We offer commercial credit, debit and prepaid payment products and solutions that meet the payment needs of large corporations, midsize companies, small businesses and government entities. Our solutions streamline procurement and payment processes, manage information and expenses (such as travel and entertainment) and reduce administrative costs. Our point-of-sale offerings include: 

&#8226; Small business cards (credit, debit and prepaid) tailored to small and medium businesses. 

&#8226; Commercial travel and entertainment, procurement and fleet cards, consisting mostly of credit cards and associated platforms for corporations to manage travel and expense, procurement and fleet expenses. Our Mastercard Smart Data&#8482; platform provides expense management and reporting capabilities. 

##TABLE_START B2B Accounts Payable. We offer solutions that enable businesses or governments to make payments to businesses with whom they have a trusted relationship for goods and services. Our solutions include Virtual Card Number (VCN), which is generated dynamically from a physical card and leverages the credit limit of the funding account. Our VCN solution may include the use of Mastercard InControl&#8482;, our virtual card platform that allows buyers to pay suppliers using a one-time use card number that can be set with transaction level controls, providing unmatched configurability and flexibility. 

Additionally, we offer a platform to optimize supplier payment enablement campaigns for financial institutions, as well as our treasury intelligence platform that provides corporations with recommendations to improve working capital performance and accelerate spend on cards. 

Key 2023 Developments &#8226; In 2023, we launched Mastercard Receivables Manager, a solution aimed at streamlining how suppliers receive virtual card payments by automating the integration of reconciliation data into suppliers&#8217; accounts receivables systems. 

&#8226; In 2023, our Disbursements and Remittances capabilities have the ability to reach more than 95% of the world&#8217;s banked population. 

Disbursements and Remittances. We offer applications that enable consumers, businesses, governments and merchants to send and receive money domestically and across borders with greater speed and ease, with a payout reach of approximately 10 billion endpoints globally across multiple channels, and in more than 180 markets and 150 currencies. 

&#8226; Using Mastercard Send&#8482;, we partner with digital messaging and payment platforms to enable consumers to send money directly within applications to other consumers. We partner with central banks, fintechs and financial institutions to help governments and nonprofits more efficiently enable, as applicable, distribution of social and economic assistance and business-to-consumer (&#8220;B2C&#8221;) disbursements across various use cases (such as wallet funding, cash payouts, gig worker payouts and insurance claims). 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; Mastercard Cross-Border Services enables a wide range of payment flows and use cases to customers (including trade payments, remittances and disbursements). These flows are enabled via a distribution network with a single point of access that allows financial institutions, fintechs and digital partners to send and receive money globally through multiple channels, including bank accounts, mobile wallets, cards and cash payouts. 

Consumer Bill Payments. Our solutions enable consumers and small businesses to pay their billers in a seamless and secure way. Leveraging our merchant acceptance network (which includes many billers), we offer consumers the choice of paying their bills in a convenient and secure manner using credit, debit or prepaid. We also offer the choice of account-based payments methods. As a result, these solutions provide an experience that offers flexibility and benefits consumers, financial institutions and billers. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 13 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Payments Innovation 

##TABLE_START Our innovation capabilities and our technology provide resiliency, scalability and flexibility in how we serve customers and in turn help them benefit consumers. They enable broader reach to scale digital payment services across multiple channels. Our technology standards, services and governance model help us to serve as the connection that allows financial institutions, fintechs and technology companies to interoperate and enable consumers, businesses, governments and merchants to engage through digital channels. 

Key 2023 Developments 

&#8226; In 2023, we marked the tenth anniversary of Mastercard introducing token standards to the payments industry, and we reached the milestone of three billion tokens in one month. 

&#8226; In 2023, we launched our Multi Token Network, a set of foundational capabilities designed to make transactions within digital asset and blockchain ecosystems secure, scalable and interoperable. 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; Delivering better digital experiences everywhere. We use our technologies and security protocols to develop solutions to make digital shopping and selling experiences, such as on smartphones and other connected devices, simpler, faster and safer for both consumers and merchants. We also offer products that make it easier for merchants to accept payments and expand their customer base. 

&#9702; Our contactless payment solutions help deliver a simple and intuitive way to pay 

&#9702; Our Mastercard Digital First&#8482; program enables customers to offer their cardholders a fully digital payment experience with an optional physical card, meeting cardholder expectations of immediacy, safety and convenience during card application, authentication and instant card access, securing purchases (whether contactless, in-store, in-app or via the web) and managing alerts, controls and benefits 

&#9702; Our Click to Pay checkout experience is designed to provide consumers the same convenience and security in a digital environment that they have when paying in a store, make it easier for merchants to implement secure digital payments and provide issuers with improved fraud detection and prevention capabilities. This experience is based on the EMV Secure Remote Commerce industry standard that enables a faster, more secure checkout experience across web and mobile sites, mobile apps and connected devices 

&#9702; Our Tap on Phone acceptance technology enables businesses of all sizes to accept payments from any contactless card or mobile wallet directly from their NFC-enabled device, providing a turnkey and cost-effective solution without any additional hardware required 

&#8226; Securing more transactions. We leverage tokenization, biometrics and machine learning technologies in our push to secure every transaction. These efforts include driving EMV-level security and benefits through all our payment channels. 

&#8226; Creating solutions to support blockchain-based digital currencies. Through a principled approach (including applying prudent risk management practices and maintaining continuous monitoring of our partners that are active in the digital asset market), Mastercard is focused on supporting digital currencies by: 

&#9702; Providing identity, cyber and consulting services for market participants (including our identity and biometric solutions, cybersecurity solutions, crypto analytics, transaction monitoring and anti-money laundering detection capabilities) as well as engaging with central banks as they design and develop central bank digital currencies 

&#9702; Helping consumers safely and easily purchase cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens (&#8220;NFTs&#8221;) as well as enabling consumers to spend their converted crypto holdings on Mastercard card offerings and cash out their crypto wallets using Mastercard Send 

&#8226; Simplifying access to, and integration of, our digital assets. Our Mastercard Developer platform makes it easy for customers and partners to leverage our many digital assets and services. By providing a single access point with tools and capabilities to find APIs across a broad range of Mastercard services, we enable easy integration of our services into new and existing solutions. 

&#8226; Identifying and experimenting with future technologies, start-ups and trends. Through Mastercard Foundry, we continue to provide customers and partners access to thought leadership, innovation methodologies, new technologies and relevant early-stage fintech players. 

14 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Value-Added Services 

Our services encompass a wide-ranging portfolio of value-added and differentiating capabilities that: 

&#8226; instill trust in the ecosystem to allow parties to transact and operate with confidence 

&#8226; provide actionable insights to our customers to assist in their decision making 

&#8226; enable our customers to strengthen their engagement with their own end users 

&#8226; enable connectivity and access for a fragmented and diverse set of parties 

Cyber and Intelligence Solutions 

##TABLE_START As part of the security we bring to the payments ecosystem, we offer products and services designed to prevent, detect and respond to fraud and cyber-attacks and to ensure the safety of transactions made using Mastercard and non-Mastercard products. We do this using a multi-layered safety and security strategy: 

&#8226; The &#8220;Prevent&#8221; layer is designed to protect against attacks on infrastructure, devices and data. We have continued to grow global usage of EMV chip and contactless security technology, helping to reduce fraud. Our solutions include Mastercard SafetyNet&#8482;, which protects financial institutions by helping to stop real-time attacks that are visible in the network, but not easily detected by financial institutions. 

Key 2023 Developments 

&#8226; In 2023, we launched our Consumer Fraud Risk solution, which leverages our AI capabilities and the unique network view of real-time payments to help banks predict and prevent payment scams. 

&#8226; In 2023, Mastercard SafetyNet prevented more than $20 billion in fraud globally. 

&#8226; In 2023, we acquired an AI-enabled, cloud-based solution designed to help stop cyber-attacks related to malware, ransomware and DDOS attacks. 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; The &#8220;Identify&#8221; layer allows us to help banks and merchants verify the authenticity of consumers during the payment process using various biometric technologies, including fingerprint, face and iris scanning, and behavioral user data assessment technology to verify online purchases on mobile devices, as well as a card with biometric technology built in. 

&#8226; The &#8220;Detect&#8221; layer is designed to both spot and take action to stop fraudulent behavior and cyber-attacks once detected. Our offerings include alerts when accounts are exposed to data breaches or security incidents, fraud scoring technology that scans billions of dollars of money flows each day while increasing approvals and reducing false declines, and network-level monitoring on a global scale to help detect the occurrence of widespread fraud attacks when the customer (or their processor) may be unable to detect or defend against them. 

&#8226; The &#8220;Experience&#8221; layer is designed to improve the security experience for our stakeholders in areas from the speed of transactions (enhancing approvals for online and card-on-file payments) to the ability to differentiate legitimate consumers from fraudulent ones. Our offerings include solutions for consumer alerts and controls and a suite of digital token services. We also offer an e-commerce fraud and dispute management network that enables merchants to stop delivery when a fraudulent or disputed transaction is identified, and issuers to refund the cardholder to avoid the chargeback process. 

&#8226; The &#8220;Network&#8221; layer extends the services we provide to transactions in the payments ecosystem and across all of our rails, including decision intelligence and tokenization capabilities, to help secure our customers and transactions on a real-time basis. 

Moreover, we use our AI and data analytics, along with our cyber risk assessment capabilities, to help enable financial institutions, merchants, corporations and governments to secure their digital assets across each of these five layers. 

We have also worked with our customers to provide products to consumers globally with increased confidence through the benefit of &#8220;zero liability&#8221;, where the consumer bears no responsibility for counterfeit or lost card losses in the event of fraud. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 15 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Data and Services Solutions 

##TABLE_START Insights and Analytics. Our capabilities incorporate payments expertise and analytical and executional skills to create end-to-end solutions which are increasingly delivered via platforms embedded in our customers&#8217; day-to-day operations. We offer business intelligence to monitor key performance indicators (&#8220;KPIs&#8221;) and benchmark performance through self-service digital platforms, tools, and reports for financial institutions, merchants and others. We enable customers to better understand consumer behavior and improve segmentation and targeting by using our anonymized and aggregated data assets, third-party data and AI technologies. We also help our customers accurately measure the impact of their decisions and improve them by leveraging data analytics to conduct disciplined business experiments for in-market tests to drive more profitable decision making. 

Key 2023 Developments 

&#8226; In 2023, we built upon our acquisition of Dynamic Yield&#8482; by launching Element. This solution is designed to combine insights from our data analytics with Dynamic Yield&#8217;s personalization experience to provide more insight-driven, customized product recommendations, offers and content to consumers. 

##TABLE_END

Consulting and Innovation. We provide advisory services that help customers make better decisions and improve performance. By observing patterns of payments behavior based on billions of transactions switched globally, we are able to leverage anonymized and aggregated information to provide advice based on data. We also utilize our expertise, digital technology, innovation tools, methodologies and processes to collaborate with, and increasingly drive innovation at, financial institutions, merchants and governments. Through our global innovation and development arm, Mastercard Foundry, we offer customized innovation programs and concept design. We continue to innovate and expand our offerings to help businesses evolve and expand their growth enterprise-wide. Our services include consulting and innovation offerings dedicated to open banking, open data, crypto and digital currencies and ESG matters. 

Marketing Services. We deliver marketing services, digital implementation and program management with performance-based solutions at every stage of the consumer lifecycle to assist our customers in implementing actions based on insights and driving adoption and usage. These services include developing messaging, targeting key groups, launching campaigns and training staff, all of which help our customers drive engagement and portfolio profitability. 

Issuer and Merchant Loyalty. We have built a scalable rewards platform that enables issuers to provide consumers with a variety of benefits and services, such as personalized offers and rewards, access to a global airport lounge network, concierge services, insurance services, emergency card replacement, emergency cash advances and a 24-hour account holder service center. For merchants, we provide campaigns with targeted offers and rewards, management services for publishing offers, and accelerated points programs for co-brand and rewards program members. We also provide a loyalty platform that enables stronger relationships with retailers, restaurants, airlines and consumer packaged goods companies by creating experiences that drive loyalty and impactful consumer engagement. 

Processing and Gateway 

We extend our processing capabilities in the payments value chain in various regions with an expanded suite of offerings, including: 

&#8226; Issuer solutions designed to provide customers with a complete processing solution to help them create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels 

&#8226; Payment gateways that offer a single interface to provide e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure online and in-app payments and offer value-added solutions, including outsourced electronic payments, fraud prevention and alternative payment options 

&#8226; Mobile gateways that facilitate transaction routing and processing for mobile-initiated transactions 

16 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our New Network Capabilities 

Open Banking 

##TABLE_START We offer an open banking platform that enables data providers and third parties, on a permissioned basis, to reliably access, securely transmit and confidently manage consumer and small business data to improve the customer experience. Our platform enables individuals to have choice of financial services, providing them the ability to access, control and benefit from the use of their data, as well as an improved payment experience. Our platform is also used to serve the needs of the lending market, including through streamlining loan application processes and improving credit decisioning, thereby driving further financial inclusion. The network connections that underpin this platform leverage our data responsibility principles (including data usage guardrails, consumer protection and consent management), as well as API technology. 

Key 2023 Developments 

&#8226; In 2023, we partnered with leading financial institutions to launch a previously-announced ACH payment solution that uses our open banking capabilities to enable seamless and secure consumer bill payments. 

&#8226; In 2023, our open banking capabilities provided connectivity to over 95% of deposit accounts in the U.S. and approximately 3,000 banks across Europe (directly as well as through partners). 

##TABLE_END

Digital Identity 

We enable digital identity solutions, which provide seamless digital experiences and strengthen and secure digital payments across individuals, devices and accounts. Our digital identity capabilities focus on the identity of people, devices and transactions. They embody Privacy by Design principles and are consent-centric. Our solutions include device intelligence and behavioral biometrics (to determine whether the user is genuine or a fraudulent device), document proofing, IP intelligence, biometrics, transaction fraud data (from which we derive insights that can be used to significantly improve the global approval rate of transactions), location, identity attributes and payment authorization. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 17 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our People 

As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 33,400 persons globally. Our employee base is predominantly full-time and approximately 67% were employed outside of the U.S. in more than 80 countries. We also had approximately 4,600 contractors which we used to supplement our employee base in order to meet specific needs. Our voluntary workforce turnover (rolling 12-month attrition) was approximately 5% as of December 31, 2023. The total cost of our workforce for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $6.0 billion, which primarily consists of compensation, benefits and other personnel- and contractor-related costs. 

Management reviews our people strategy and culture, as well as related risks, with our Human Resources and Compensation Committee on a quarterly basis, and annually with our Board of Directors. Additionally, our Board and Board committees are tasked with overseeing other human capital management matters on a regular basis, such as ensuring processes are in place for maintaining an ethical corporate culture, overseeing key diversity, equity and inclusion (&#8220;DEI&#8221;) initiatives, policies and practices, and monitoring governance trends in areas such as human rights. Our ability to attract, develop and retain top talent and build a healthy culture is critical to our business strategy. 

Specifically, to enable our business strategy effectively, our aim is to: 

&#8226; attract and retain talent with the key skills needed to achieve short-term and long-term goals 

&#8226; develop a high-performing, agile workforce that can collaborate and compete in a fast-paced, innovative environment 

&#8226; build on our DEI efforts to enable equal opportunities and empower people 

Attract talent. 

&#8226; We continuously recruit talent by leveraging the strength of our brand and utilizing a variety of sources, channels, and initiatives in order to support our growth across sectors, markets and emerging industries 

&#8226; Our acquisition activity has also provided a strong source of talent with differentiated skills 

##TABLE_START Develop and retain talent. We develop and retain our employees, ensuring we stay competitive and respond to both changing market dynamics and our employees&#8217; needs while supporting a culture of innovation grounded in decency. Our efforts include: 

&#8226; An annual cycle that aligns with our &#8220;Mastercard Way&#8221; and focuses on objective setting, performance assessment, talent evaluation, skill development, opportunities and career progression 

&#8226; Succession planning for key roles, including talent and leadership programs across various levels. These programs embed our culture principles, include diverse populations, aim to develop talent and managerial skills through personalized coaching and group executive development and leverage mentorship programs and other learning opportunities 

The Mastercard Way The Mastercard Way is the statement of our culture. It consists of three principles: 

&#8226; Create value 

&#8226; Grow together 

&#8226; Move fast 

These principles address where we are going as an organization, how we work together and how we deliver for our customers and each other. 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; A competitive compensation approach (subject to periodic reviews) under which eligible employees across multiple job levels can receive long-term incentive equity awards 

&#8226; Contributions to employees&#8217; financial well-being as they plan for retirement. All employees globally are entitled to receive a matching Mastercard contribution of $1.67 for every $1 contributed to a 401(k) or other retirement plan on the first 6% of base pay 

&#8226; Continued expansion and prioritization of well-being offerings for employees, including access to mental, physical and financial health resources, additional paid time off for dependent care, and support for family planning 

&#8226; Flexibility policies and programs to support employees, including a four-week &#8221;work from anywhere&#8221; policy, meeting-free days and a hybrid work approach guided by team-based agreements for when teams come together 

&#8226; Supporting of employee charitable donations with matching Mastercard gifts and making a donation for every hour volunteered, as well as providing five paid days per year for full-time employees for eligible volunteer work 

&#8226; Experience surveys that we periodically run to assess our overall employee engagement areas (with occasional focus on more targeted topics) and prioritize how we address emerging opportunity areas 

18 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

&#8226; A culture of high ethical business practices and compliance standards, grounded in honesty, decency, trust and personal accountability. It is driven by &#8220;tone at the top,&#8221; reinforced with regular training, fostered in a speak-up environment, and measured by our periodic employee surveys and other metrics that enable our Board to maintain a pulse on areas of strength and opportunities for improvement 

##TABLE_START Diversity, equity and inclusion underpin everything we do, helping us build a healthy culture, attract talent and drive long-term value for stockholders: 

&#8226; We have developed regional and functional action plans to identify priorities and actions that will help us make more progress for DEI, including appropriate balance and inclusion in gender and racial representation 

&#8226; We remain committed to our &#8220;In Solidarity&#8221; initiative through alignment of our DEI plans globally to address local needs and opportunities, for example through the introduction of new training programs such as our neurodiversity hiring initiative and new partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) in the U.S. 

Workforce Demographics &#8226; 39% of our global workforce are women 

&#8226; 44% of our U.S. workforce are people of color 1 

&#8226; Female employees earned $1.00 for every $1.00 men earned during 2023 

&#8226; In the U.S., employees of color earned $1.00 for every $1.00 white employees earned during 2023 1 

&#8226; The median pay for female employees was 96.4% compared to male employees during 2023 2 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; We remain dedicated to practices designed to ensure there is equal pay for equal work. We have established a framework for examining pay practices annually, supported by third-party analysis and benchmarked to the external market. We assess compensation decisions for potential pay disparities by gender (including base, bonus and long-term incentives), among other categories, and appropriately respond to any disparities that are found 

&#8226; Our employee incentive compensation plan features an ESG modifier for all employees that includes quantitative goals for a number of ESG items, including gender pay parity. 

We expect to provide more detailed information in 2024 regarding our employees, including additional workforce demographics, in our annual Environmental, Social and Governance Report and Proxy Statement, both of which will be located on our website. 

1 People of Color are defined as Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, or two or more races. Ethnicity data does not include undeclared. 

2 The gender pay gap is predominantly due to the fact that we have more men in senior roles, not because men are paid more. 

Brand 

Our family of well-known brands includes Mastercard, Maestro and Cirrus. We manage and promote our brands and brand identities through advertising, promotions and sponsorships, as well as digital, mobile and social media initiatives, in order to increase people&#8217;s preference for our brands and usage of our products. We sponsor a variety of sporting, entertainment and charity-related marketing properties to align with consumer segments important to us and our customers. Our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, preference and overall usage among account holders globally. Our &#8220;Priceless&#174;&#8221; advertising campaign, which celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2022 and has run in more than 50 languages and in more than 120 countries worldwide, promotes Mastercard usage benefits and acceptance, markets Mastercard payment products and solutions and provides Mastercard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand around the globe. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 19 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Data 

We create a range of products and services for our customers (including the majority of our value-added services) that use our data assets, infrastructure, expertise and platforms. These products and services are designed to help reduce fraud, increase security, provide actionable insights to our customers to assist in their decision-making and enable our customers to increase their engagement with consumers. We do all this while following our data and tech responsibility principles in how we design, implement and deliver those solutions. Our Privacy by Design, Data by Design and AI Governance processes are designed to ensure we embed multiple layers of privacy, data protection and information security controls in all of our products and services, keeping a clear focus on protecting customers&#8217; and individuals&#8217; data. We seek to do this in a number of ways: 

&#8226; Practicing data minimization. We practice collecting and retaining only the personal information that is needed for a given product or service, and limiting the amount and type of personal information shared with third parties 

&#8226; Being transparent and providing control. We explain how we use personal information and AI and give individuals access and control over how their data is used and shared 

&#8226; Working with trusted partners. Our processes are designed to ensure we select partners and service providers who share our principled-approach to protecting data and using AI 

&#8226; Addressing bias in our data and AI. We have implemented governance and processes to help test and mitigate for bias when we use advanced analytics, including AI and Machine Learning, to create fair and inclusive solutions that reflect individual, group and societal interests 

&#8226; Advancing positive social impact. Where possible, we utilize our data sets and analytics capabilities to create innovative solutions to societal challenges, promoting inclusive financial, social, climate, health and education growth 

Technology 

We leverage our technology to help enable payments, services and new networks, enhance our operational strength and enable our employees to deliver effectively for our customers. Our strategy to &#8220;lead through technology&#8221; includes the following key areas: 

Offering our products to customers around the world: 

&#8226; Standardizing and simplifying how we connect with customers to provide them with the tools to manage and expand their Mastercard relationship 

&#8226; Deploying our cloud-native technology infrastructure to adapt to evolving market conditions and further enhance speed, resiliency and scalability 

Enabling our full range of products and services: 

&#8226; Enhancing payment rails and expanding them across payments and services, including providing seamless customer adoption across new services and enhancing connectivity to new networks 

&#8226; Further evolving our data infrastructure to unlock incremental value and ensure ongoing compliance with evolving data laws and regulations 

Empowering our employees: 

&#8226; Improving the speed in which we deliver for our customers through a combination of tools and customer-centric practices 

&#8226; Attracting, developing and retaining top technology talent, as well as strengthening our employees&#8217; technology acumen 

20 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Revenue Sources 

Mastercard is a payments network service provider that generates revenue from a wide range of payment solutions we provide to our customers. We classify our net revenues, which includes the impact of rebates and incentives, from contracts with customers into two categories: (i) payment network and (ii) value-added services and solutions. 

Within our payment network, revenue is primarily generated from charging fees to our customers based on GDV (which includes both domestic and cross-border volume) on the cards that carry our brands and for providing switching and other network-related services. 

Within our value-added services and solutions, we generate revenue primarily related to the following: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; Cyber and intelligence solutions 

&#8226; Data and services solutions 

&#8226; ACH batch and real-time account-based domestic and cross-border payments and solutions 

&#8226; Processing and gateway 

&#8226; Open banking solutions 

&#8226; Digital identity solutions 

##TABLE_END

See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenue&#8221; in Part II, Item 7 and Note 3, Revenue for more detail about our revenue. 

Intellectual Property 

We own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including Mastercard, Maestro and Cirrus, through one or more affiliates. We also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by us to support our payment programs. Trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. Through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks on a royalty-free basis in connection with our customers&#8217; issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payment solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, biometrics, AI, security systems, blockchain and other technologies, which are important to our business operations. These patents expire at varying times depending on the jurisdiction and filing date. 

Competition 

We face a number of competitors both within and outside of the global payments industry. We compete in all categories of payments (including paper-based payments and all forms of electronic payments) as well as in all categories in which we provide value-added services and solutions: 

&#8226; General Purpose Payments Networks. We compete worldwide with payments networks such as Visa, American Express, JCB, China UnionPay and Discover, among others. These competitors tend to offer a range of card-based payment products. Some competitors have more market share than we do in certain jurisdictions. Some also have different business models that may provide an advantage in pricing, regulatory compliance burdens or otherwise. Globally, financial institutions may issue both Mastercard- and Visa-branded payment products, and we compete with Visa for business on the basis of individual portfolios or programs. In addition, a number of our customers issue American Express-, China UnionPay- and/or Discover-branded payment cards in a manner consistent with a four-party system. We continue to face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our issuers and acquirers, and we seek to enter into business agreements with them through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our payment products. 

&#8226; Debit and Local Networks. We compete with ATM and point-of-sale debit networks. In various countries, local debit brands serve as the main domestic brands, while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions (typically representing a small portion of overall transaction volume). In addition, several governments are promoting, or considering promoting, local networks for domestic switching. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A for a more detailed discussion of the risks related to payments system regulation and government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively. 

&#8226; Real-time Account-based Payments Systems. We face competition in the ACH and real-time account-based payments space from providers of infrastructure, applications and services. As these real-time account-based propositions mature, we face a possible increase in competition for our existing domestic person-to-merchant (&#8220;P2M&#8221;) and person-to-person (&#8220;P2P&#8221;) transaction market share. Similarly, as interlinking of these infrastructures is further explored, they could disrupt our existing cross-border 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 21 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

P2M and P2P market share. Also, several industry initiatives are experimenting with the concept of account-based global schemes, which could lead to a disruption of the clearing and settlement options utilized in various currencies. 

&#8226; Digital Wallets and other Fintechs. As the global payments industry becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from fintechs and other emerging payments providers, both for customers and data. Many of these providers, who in many circumstances can also be our partners or customers, have developed payments systems focused on online activity in e-commerce and mobile channels (in some cases, expanding to other channels), and may process payments using in-house account transfers, real-time account-based payments networks or global or local networks, in addition to card. Examples include digital wallet providers, point-of-sale financing/buy-now-pay-later providers, mobile operator services, mobile phone-based money transfer and microfinancing services, handset manufacturers, B2B accounts payable and accounts receivable providers. 

&#8226; Government-Backed Networks. Governments have been increasingly creating and expanding local payments structures (such as the Brazilian Instant Payment System-PIX, FedNow in the U.S. and United Payments Interface (UPI) in India), which are increasingly being considered as alternatives to traditional domestic payment solutions and schemes such as ours. In particular, India has recently engaged in a series of efforts to expand the interoperability and cross-border reach of UPI globally. Most recently, it announced an agreement in 2023 to partner with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to enable Indian travelers within the UAE to pay with UPI. In addition to local and regional networks, national governments continue to explore the use of central bank digital currencies (&#8220;CBDCs&#8221;). 

&#8226; Digital Currencies. Stablecoins and floating cryptocurrencies may become more popular as they become more regulated and increasingly viewed as providing immediacy, 24/7 accessibility, immutability and efficiency. Some players, including payment service providers and payment facilitators, have started to enable merchant acceptance of such currencies in P2M, while some banks have started experimenting with blockchain B2B payments. Digital currencies and emerging players (such as crypto natives) have the ability to disrupt traditional financial markets. The increased prominence of digital currencies creates an opportunity for us but could equally compete with our products and services. 

&#8226; Value-Added Service Providers and New Network Capabilities Players. We face competition from companies that provide alternatives to our value-added services and solutions. These companies include information services and consulting firms that provide consulting services and insights to financial institutions, merchants and governments, technology companies that provide cyber and fraud solutions (including AI-based solutions), and companies that compete against us as providers of loyalty and program management solutions. We also face competition from companies that provide alternatives to our open banking and digital identity solutions. Regulatory initiatives could also lead to increased competition in this space. 

22 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

We play a valuable role as a trusted intermediary in a complex system, creating value for individual stakeholders and the payments ecosystem overall. Our competitive advantages include: 

##TABLE_START 

Global network Highly adaptable and world class global payments network built over more than 50 years that can reach a variety of parties to enable payments anywhere 

Franchise model Establishing rules, standards and bearing of financial risk (including our settlement guarantee backed by our strong credit standing) that allows for interoperability among all participants 

Multi-rail Multiple payment and new network capabilities based on our innovation and technology that enable choice 

Brand Globally recognized and trusted brands 

Data Products and services leveraging our data assets, infrastructure, platforms and expertise that incorporate our data and tech responsibility principles and reflect our Privacy by Design, Data by Design and AI Governance processes. These include our safety and security solutions, analytics insights, consulting and marketing services and loyalty solutions 

Talent and culture World class talent and culture guided by the Mastercard Way, with a focus on diversity, equity and inclusion and &#8220;doing well by doing good&#8221; 

Technology Leading-edge technology that advances the quality, speed and diversity of our offerings and solutions 

Government engagement Ability to serve a broad array of participants in global payments due to our expanded on-soil presence in individual markets and a heightened focus on working with governments ##TABLE_END

Collectively, the capabilities that we have created organically, and those that we have obtained through acquisitions, support and build upon each other to enhance the total proposition we offer our customers. They enable us to partner with many participants in the broader payments ecosystem and provide choice, security and services to improve the value we provide to our customers. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 23 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Government Regulation 

As a technology company operating in the global payments industry, we are subject to government regulation that impacts key aspects of our business. In particular, we are subject to the laws and regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our products and services are used. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations and implementing policies, procedures and programs designed to promote compliance. We monitor and coordinate globally while acting locally and establish relationships to assess and manage the effects of regulation on us. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A for more detail and examples of the regulation to which we are subject. 

##TABLE_START Payments Oversight and Regulation. Central banks and other regulators around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, formal oversight over participants in the payments industry, as well as authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries. Such authority has resulted in regulation of Mastercard as financial market infrastructure, as well as regulation related to various aspects of our business (including areas such as consumer protections and cybersecurity). In the European Union (the &#8220;EU&#8221;), Mastercard is subject to systemic importance regulation, which includes various requirements we must meet, including obligations related to governance and risk management. In the U.K., the Bank of England designated Vocalink&#8482;, our real-time account-based payments network platform, as a &#8220;specified service provider&#8221;, and Mastercard as a &#8220;recognized payment system&#8221;, which includes supervisions and examination requirements. In addition, EU legislation requires us to separate our scheme activities (brand, products, franchise and licensing) from our switching activities and other processing in terms of how we go to market, make decisions and organize our structure. Examples of other markets where Mastercard is formally overseen include Australia, Brazil, India, Mexico and South Africa. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries are also regulated as payments institutions, including as money transmitters. This regulation subjects us to licensing obligations, regulatory supervision and examinations, as well as various business conduct and risk management requirements. 

Interchange Fees. Interchange fees that support the function and value of four-party payments systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged around the world via legislation to regulate interchange fees, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and litigation. Examples include statutes in the U.S. that cap debit interchange for certain regulated activities, proposed legislation in the U.S. to extend routing mandates to credit, our settlement with the European Commission (the &#8220;EC&#8221;) resolving its investigation into our interregional interchange fees and the EU legislation capping consumer credit and debit interchange fees on payments issued and acquired within the European Economic Area (the &#8220;EEA&#8221;). For more detail, see &#8220;Risk Factors - Other Regulation&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A and Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. 

Key 2023 Developments 

&#8226; In October 2023, the U.S. Federal Reserve issued a proposal that would lower the interchange rate cap for debit and prepaid transactions in the U.S. by approximately 28%-30% (based on an average ticket size of $50), with the cap automatically updating every two years. 

&#8226; In June 2023, legislation was re-introduced in the U.S. Senate that would extend routing mandates for Mastercard and Visa to credit. The bill stipulates that the top two networks could not be enabled on the same card, leaving room for regional networks to serve as second options. The bill proposes to mandate Mastercard provide authentication, tokenization or other security technology to competing networks, whether or not the transaction is switched by Mastercard. 

&#8226; In October 2023, the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) proposed a rule requiring data providers to make covered data available to consumers and authorized third parties, promoting industry standard-setting bodies recognized by the CFPB, and outlining obligations for third parties accessing data on behalf of consumers (including limitations on the collection, use and retention of covered data). 

&#8226; In October 2023, Mastercard was designated by the Bank of Canada (BoC) as a &#8220;prominent payment system&#8221; as it relates to its business in Canada (i.e., a payment system that is critical for economic activity in Canada). This designation will result in broad regulatory oversight by the BoC. 

##TABLE_END

Preferential or Protective Government Actions. Some governments have taken action to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as to create their own national providers. For example, governments in some countries mandate switching of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. Some jurisdictions are currently considering adopting or have adopted &#8220;data localization&#8221; requirements, which mandate the collection, storage, and/or other processing of data within their borders. This is the case, for instance, in India, China and Saudi Arabia. Various forms of data localization requirements or data transfer restrictions are also under consideration in other countries and jurisdictions, including the EU. 

24 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Anti-Money Laundering, Countering the Financing of Terrorism, Economic Sanctions and Anti-Corruption. We are subject to anti-money laundering (&#8220;AML&#8221;) and countering the financing of terrorism (&#8220;CFT&#8221;) laws and regulations globally, including the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). We have implemented a comprehensive AML/CFT program, comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, which is designed to prevent our payments network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity and to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. The economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically Crimea, the Donetsk People&#8217;s Republic and Luhansk People&#8217;s Republic regions of Ukraine, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Syria) and with persons and entities included in OFAC sanctions lists including its list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (the &#8220;SDN List&#8221;). We take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with OFAC and other applicable sanctions, including establishing a risk-based compliance program that has policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent us from having unlawful business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. As part of this program, we obligate issuers and acquirers to comply with their local sanctions obligations and U.S. and EU sanctions programs. In the U.S., these obligations include requiring the screening of account holders and merchants, respectively, against OFAC sanctions lists (including the SDN List). Iran and Syria have been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states, and we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries and do not license entities domiciled there. We are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls to proactively manage corruption risk. 

Issuer and Acquirer Practices Legislation and Regulation. Our issuers and acquirers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks, financial institutions and other licensed entities, impacting us as a consequence. Additionally, regulations such as the revised Payment Services Directive (commonly referred to as &#8220;PSD2&#8221;) in the EEA require financial institutions to provide third-party payment processors access to consumer payment accounts, enabling them to route transactions away from Mastercard products and provide payment initiation and account information services directly to consumers who use our products. PSD2 also requires a new standard for authentication of transactions, which necessitates additional verification information from consumers to complete transactions. This may increase the number of transactions that consumers abandon if we are unable to ensure a frictionless authentication experience under the new standards. 

Regulation of Internet, Digital Transactions and High-Risk Merchant Categories. Various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions which applies to payments system participants, including us and our customers. We may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports, as well as certain legally permissible but high-risk merchant categories, such as adult content, firearms, alcohol and tobacco. 

Privacy, Data Protection, AI and Information Security. Aspects of our operations or business are subject to increasingly complex and fragmented privacy, data and information security laws and regulations in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere around the world. For example, in the U.S., we and our customers are respectively subject to, among other laws and regulations, Federal Trade Commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) that require, among other things, the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program and, increasingly, a number of state data and privacy laws. With respect to information security, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) adopted new disclosure rules that require, among other things, disclosing material cybersecurity incidents in a Current Report on Form 8-K, generally within four business days of determining an incident is material. In the EU, we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (the &#8220;GDPR&#8221;) and its equivalent in the U.K., which requires, among other things, a comprehensive privacy, data protection and information security program to protect the personal and sensitive data of EEA residents. Several regulators and policymakers around the globe use the GDPR as a reference to adopt new or updated privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations, although divergences have occurred. Laws and regulations in this area are constantly evolving due to several factors, including increasing data collection and data flows, numerous data breaches and security incidents, more sensitive data categories, and emerging technologies such as AI. In addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations are often uncertain and in a state of flux, thus requiring constant monitoring for compliance. 

MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 25 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

ESG. Various jurisdictions have adopted or are increasingly considering adopting laws and regulations impacting our reporting on ESG governance, strategy, risk management, metrics and targets, and results. Regulations already adopted or being considered include required corporate reporting and disclosures on specific topics as well as broader ESG matters. Specific topics include climate (such as the U.K. Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting, the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, or &#8220;EU CSRD&#8221;, and the SEC proposed rules related to climate change) and human rights (such as the EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive). Broader ESG matters include other environmental matters, treatment of employees and diversity of workforce (such as in the EU CSRD). 

Additional Regulatory Developments. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding buy-now-pay-later, open banking, digital currencies, marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules and marketing. 

Additional Information 

Mastercard Incorporated was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in May 2001. We conduct our business principally through our principal operating subsidiary, Mastercard International Incorporated, a Delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in November 1966. For more information about our capital structure, including our Class A common stock (our voting stock) and Class B common stock (our non-voting stock), see Note 16 (Stockholders' Equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. 

Website and SEC Reports 

Our internet address is www.mastercard.com. From time to time, we may use our corporate website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. You can also visit &#8220;Investor Alerts&#8221; in the investor relations section to enroll your email address to automatically receive email alerts and other information about Mastercard. 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available for review, without charge, on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on our corporate website, including, but not limited to, our Environmental, Social and Governance Report and our U.S. Consolidated EEO-1 Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Report. Our filings are also available electronically from the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

26 MASTERCARD 2023 FORM 10-K 

PART I 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

